### 1. Procedural Language
In a procedural language like C step by step, predefined instructions are carried out. C program may contain more than one function to perform a particular task. New people to programming will think that this is the only way a particular programming language works. There are other programming paradigms as well in the programming world. Most of the commonly used paradigm is an `object-oriented programming language`. 

### 2.  Fast and Efficient
Newer languages like Java, python offer more features than c programming language but due to additional processing in these languages, their performance rate gets down effectively. C programming language as the middle-level language provides programmers access to direct manipulation with the computer hardware but higher-level languages do not allow this. That’s one of the reasons C language is considered the first choice to start learning programming languages. It’s fast because statically typed languages are faster than dynamically typed languages.

### 3. Modularity
The concept of storing C programming language code in the form of `libraries` for further future uses is known as modularity. This programming language can do very little on its own most of its power is held by its libraries. C language has its own library to solve common problems.

### 4. Statically Type
C programming language is a `statically typed language`. Meaning the type of variable is checked at the time of compilation but not at run time. This means each time a programmer types a program they have to mention the type of variables used.

### 5. General-Purpose Language
From system programming to photo editing software, the C programming language is used in various applications. Some of the common applications where it’s used are as follows: 

Operating systems: Windows, Linux, iOS, Android, OXS
Databases: PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, etc.

### 6. Rich set of built-in Operators
It is a diversified language with a rich set of built-in operators which are used in writing complex or simplified C programs.

### 7. Libraries with Rich Functions
Robust libraries and functions in C help even a beginner coder to code with ease.

### 8. Middle-Level Language
As it is a middle-level language so it has the combined form of both capabilities of assembly language and features of the high-level language.

### 9. Portability
C language is lavishly portable as programs that are written in C language can run and compile on any system with either no or small changes. 

### 10. Easy to Extend
Programs written in C language can be extended means when a program is already written in it then some more features and operations can be added to it.